---
title: 'Document Loading'
date: '2024-12-20'
author: 'Ahmad Agah'
---

# Document Loading

The document loading part takes a set of documents in a variety of formats, generates vector embeddings for them, and then inserts them into a vector database. The code first instantiates the vector database (Chroma) as well as the vector embedding model (from Google), storing the vector database locally in the filesystem.

```python
from langchain_community.vectorstores import Chroma
from langchain_google_genai import GoogleGenerativeAIEmbeddings
from langchain.text_splitter import RecursiveCharacterTextSplitter

vectorstore = Chroma(
     persist_directory="./rag_data/.chromadb",
     embedding_function=GoogleGenerativeAIEmbeddings(
        model="models/embedding-001",
        task_type="retrieval_query"
     )
)
```

The program begins by generating a list of links to retrieve by accessing the department's website and returning all links on the page that contain "computer-science" or "security" in them.

```python
cs_website = "https://www.pdx.edu/computer-science"
headers = {
    'User-Agent' : 'PDXAcademicClient/cs430'
}
resp = requests.get(cs_website, headers=headers)
soup = BeautifulSoup(resp.text,"html.parser")
links = list({urljoin(cs_website,a['href']) for a in soup.find_all('a', href=True) if any(['computer-science' in a['href'], 'security' in a['href']])})
```

It then calls a function to retrieve each of the links. Examine the function and answer the following questions:

Explain what the transformer does to the HTML retrieved by the loader.
Examine the document cleaning code. What kinds of characters are removed when the text is cleaned?
After the links are retrieved and their content is cleaned, the resulting documents are returned. Within the main program, they are then chunked and loaded into the vector database.

Questions to Answer
What size chunks is the content split into?
What amount of overlap is there between chunks?
How many documents are loaded at a time into the vector database?
Running the Code
Run the code and see the links that are loaded:

```bash
python 01_loaddb.py
```
