---
title: "Open API Agent Implementation"
date: "2024-12-20"
author: "Ahmad Agah"
---

# Open API Agent Implementation

We can utilize the `OpenAPIToolkit` to access API endpoints given their OpenAPI specification. The code below instantiates the OpenAPI toolkit and agent creation function as well as utilities for loading OpenAPI YAML specifications. As OpenAPI endpoints must often be accessed with credentials, a `RequestsWrapper` must also be supplied that may contain `Authorization:` header settings for the calls. In our case, the `xkcd` API does not require authentication.

```python
from langchain_community.agent_toolkits import OpenAPIToolkit, create_openapi_agent
from langchain_community.agent_toolkits.openapi.spec import reduce_openapi_spec
from langchain_community.agent_toolkits.openapi import planner
from langchain_community.utilities.requests import RequestsWrapper
import yaml
```

The program retrieves the specification from an open repository, loads it using a YAML parser, then creates a reduced version of the specification:

```python
openapi_spec = requests.get("https://raw.githubusercontent.com/APIs-guru/unofficial_openapi_specs/xkcd.json")
raw_api_spec = yaml.load(openapi_spec, Loader=yaml.Loader)
api_spec = reduce_openapi_spec(raw_api_spec)
```

It then instantiates the agent using the specification, the model, and the wrapper. Note that because the toolkit is able to make arbitrary API requests, it is dangerous to use, and one must explicitly allow them:

```python
xkcd_agent = planner.create_openapi_agent(
    api_spec=api_spec,
    llm=llm,
    requests_wrapper=RequestsWrapper(),
    allow_dangerous_requests=True,
)
```

The toolkit automatically creates tools for performing API requests. One can examine the tools using the code below. They will include a planner tool to create a sequence of API calls to answer a user query based on the API specification and a controller tool for executing the calls. We can examine them via the code below:

```python
for tool in xkcd_agent.tools:
    print(f' Tool: {tool.name} = {tool.description}')
```

Ask the questions below to test the agent and its tools. Take a screenshot showing the results of execution:

What is the current xkcd?
What is the image link of the current xkcd?
What was xkcd 327 about?
